

 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  Apple continues to dominate the tablet industry - YugaTech | Philippines, Tech News &amp; Reviews
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
    
    
     home/
     about/
     advertise/
     contact/
     ask yuga/
     jobs/
     pc labs/
     feed
     
    
    
   
    YugaTech | Philippines, Tech News &amp; Reviews
    
     YugaTech is the #1 Technology News and Reviews Site in the Philippines.
    
    
     
     
    
   
    Skip to content
    
   
    
     
      Home | News | Apple continues to dominate the tablet industry
      
     
     
      
       February 12, 2013
       Apple continues to dominate the tablet industry
       
       
       
       
       
      
      
       Before the end of January, IDC  released the result of their research on the tablet market. As the firm have predicted, tablet shipment continued to soar as more and more people and companies adapt to the post-PC revolution. Not so surprisingly, Apple remains the dominating force in the industry, continuing to pull away from its competitors.
       Apple had a very solid outing last year, owning 43.6% of the global tablet market with shipments reaching almost 23 million. Although iPad shipment have increased by little over 48-percent from the prior year, their total market share is down by 8.1%. A chunk of this market loss is claimed by their arch-rival, Samsung.
       
       From a 2.2 million outing on 2011, Sammy&acirc;€™s tablet shipment has sky-rocketed to 7.9 million a year after. This stellar performance boosted the South Korean company to the far second place, taking 15.1% of the global market share. But as outstanding as it may sound, they are not the company that had the biggest traction last year. That title goes to ASUS which is in the 4th place.
       The Taiwanese company couldn’t be happier with the way 2012 has turned out for them, garnering a year-over-year growth of more than 400%. They still have a long way to go to reach the top, but they are well underway if they can keep this level of performance. 
       
       Amazon, which is in the third place in the ranking, also saw some improvements on their total shipments. However, their market share is a bit on the downside, dropping 4.4% compared to their 2011 performance. Well at least the online retail has something to celebrate, unlike the company behind Nook Tablet who we think would like a do-over of 2012.
       Barnes and Noble is slowly losing its grip (if it had one) on the tablet market with performance on the down trend. The company slips one place to the fifth spot, behind the biggest gainer of the year, ASUS.
       2012 was a big year for tablet manufacturers. Demands for tablets soared, resulting to a substantial 75% increase in shipment from the previous year. Like most people, we also think that things will just get better moving forward as we embrace the new phase in computing. We can also expect Microsoft to play a significant role in the overall growth of the tablet industry, especially now that more and more slates are running on their touch-optimized OS. 
       {Source}
       
       
       
       
       
      
      
       
         
       
       
        Written by Ronnie Bulaong
        This article was written by Ronnie Bulaong, a special features contributor for YugaTech. He used to work as Manager at one of the top BPOs in the country. Follow him on Twitter @turonbulaong.
        Follow me on Twitter or add me up on Facebook.
       
       
      
       
       
      
       tagged as: 
       idc, 
       top 5 tablet manufacturers
       Other search terms:
       
        ASUS 7 tab yugatech
        android tablets application articles in philippines
       
       
      
       
       
      
      
       
      
      
       Post a comment 
       — 
       Trackback URI
       RSS 2.0 feed for these comments
       This entry (permalink) was posted on  at 8:59 am by Ronnie Bulaong. Filed in News and tagged idc, top 5 tablet manufacturers. 
      
      
      
        
       Tweet
       
       
      
      
      11 Responses to “Apple continues to dominate the tablet industry”
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
         
           
          refinery 
          says: 
         
         
          February 12, 2013 at 10:29 am 
         
         they deserve it because they refined and re invented the tablet
         then the others followed, you cannot deny that, it’s a fact
         fire away folks! 
         cheers! :-0
         
          Reply 
         
        
       
        
         
           
          isheep 
          says: 
         
         
          February 12, 2013 at 10:33 am 
         
         spoken like a true isheep :)
         
          Reply 
         
        
       
        
         
           
          lolwut 
          says: 
         
         
          February 12, 2013 at 10:34 am 
         
         You can’t deny the fact that iOS is still the smoothest for a tablet, but not for the phone. But the trend now is the price point, who can shell the best specs at low price is the winner. Consumers are getting smarter and more practical. I give it 1 more year before someone can topple Apple from the tablet market.
         
          Reply 
         
        
       
        
         
           
          Jake 
          says: 
         
         
          February 12, 2013 at 11:13 am 
         
         Some iSheep will soon learn their lesson. haha
         
          Reply 
         
        
       
        
         
           
          Ryan 
          says: 
         
         
          February 12, 2013 at 11:34 am 
         
         Tablet is still apple turps. Base on the tabulation, there is an increase in volumes compared to 2011. The tablet market is widening but apple needs to catch up in terms of their overall share. They need to tap those lower end market if the want to survive. 
         from IOS user in tab and Android in phone.
         
          Reply 
         
        
       
        
         
           
          Jimmy 
          says: 
         
         
          February 12, 2013 at 12:26 pm 
         
         But just look at the YOY GROWTH. Asus and Samsung’s are phenomenal! It’s only a matter of time.. :)
         
          Reply 
         
        
        
         
          
           
             
            dvancleef 
            says: 
           
           
            February 12, 2013 at 3:50 pm 
           
           A huge chunk (probably the majority) of that is Nexus 7.
           
          
        
       
        
         
           
          Bro Jake 
          says: 
         
         
          February 12, 2013 at 1:22 pm 
         
         I’m a bit surprised by that Asus figure. I would think they had a better market share. These guys suggest this new Memo Pad is going to do wonders: http://www.asuseeepad.net/fonepad-me371mg.php
         It’s a catch up game anyways. Apple isn’t going away anytime soon.
         
          Reply 
         
        
       
        
         
           
          tarush 
          says: 
         
         
          February 12, 2013 at 2:28 pm 
         
         Market share for Androids may be higher, but it’s due to the fact that they’re trying to get some market share by selling them at nearly manufacturing cost, just like the Nexus line.In short, wala sila masyado kinita para sa market share na yun.
         If the apps for Android tablets do not improve, then we’ll continue to see Apple owning the tablet market.
         As for the smartphone, Samsung in particular enjoys the big sales of SIII and Note 2 because Apple has no direct competitor for those 2 gadgets. That will be seen when Apple releases the 5? smmartphone.
         The Galaxy were bestsellers before, but when the iPad Mini was released, their sales went poof…
         
          Reply 
 